charts/premium/nextcloud/docs/backup-restore-migrate-guide.md, before:

---
title: Nextcloud Backup, Restore and Migration Guide
---

This guide can will walk through the process of backing up and existing Nextcloud installation and how to restore or migrate that installation. This guide utilize HostPath or NFS for UserData.

## Backup

:::danger SMB EXTERNAL STORAGE

If you are using SMB authenticated external storage on your Nextcloud remove it before starting this guide. The migration process will fail if it is not removed.

:::

:::danger TWO FACTOR AUTHENTICATION

If you are using two factor authentication on your Nextcloud accounts disable it before starting this guide. While it can be done via the CLI later it is much easier to disable it before hand.

:::

### Backup Database

If you have not already done so install PGAdmin and the [tcdbinfo.sh script](/scale/guides/sql-export/#how-to-list-database-login-info-for-truecharts-apps)

1. Run the tcdbinfo.sh script and take note of the connection info

   ```bash
   bash tcdbinfo.sh
   ```

   <!-- ![tcdbinfo-output](./img/tcdbinfo-output.png) -->

2. Add Nextcloud to PGAdmin using the connection info from previous step.
   <!-- ![pgadmin-connection1](./img/pgadmin-connection1.png) -->
   <!-- ![pgadmin-connection2](./img/pgadmin-connection2.png) -->
3. Backup Nextcloud database.
   <!-- ![pgadmin-backup](./img/pgadmin-backup.png) -->

### Backup User Data

If you are using HostPath of NFS for UserData then no further action is required. If you are using PVC for UserData then you will first need to mount your Nextcloud PVC and copy your UserData to a new dataset.

## Restore

### Remove Old AppData

This step is not required but to have a clean installation remove all UserData folder and files that are not user folders.

```bash
ls -la
```

<!-- ![userdata-old](./img/userdata-old.png) -->

:::warning

Next steps are destructive without a way to undo. Make sure you have proper backups to avoid data loss.

You have been **warned**

```bash
rm -rf <folder>
```

```bash
rm .ocdata .htaccess index.html nextcloud.log
```

<!-- ![userdata-clean](./img/userdata-clean.png) -->

:::

### Verify User Data Permissions

Nextcloud uses apps for file ownership. Apply permissions as shown below to your User Data dataset.

![userdata-perms](./img/userdata-perms.png)

### Install Nextcloud

Install with a temporary admin user that you do not currently use for Nextcloud (ie. temp)

Setup Nextcloud User Data storage with your previous User Data dataset or the dataset you copied your User Data to.

<!-- ![userdata-setting](./img/userdata-setting.png) -->

### Restore Database

:::caution Nextcloud Installation

Wait for Nextcloud to fully deploy before proceeding.

:::

1. Stop the main pod of Nextcloud.

   ```bash
   k3s kubectl scale deploy nextcloud -n ix-nextcloud --replicas=0
   ```

2. Add Nextcloud to PGAdmin as guided in [steps 1 and 2 here](#backup-database).
3. In PGAdmin right click on the database and select restore as shown below.
   <!-- ![pgadmin-restore1](./img/pgadmin-restore1.png) -->
4. Select the database backup you created previously.
   <!-- ![pgadmin-restore2](./img/pgadmin-restore2.png) -->
5. Configure Data/Objects as shown below.
   <!-- ![pgadmin-restore3](./img/pgadmin-restore3.png) -->
6. Configure Options as shown below and click restore.
   <!-- ![pgadmin-restore4](./img/pgadmin-restore4.png) -->

:::caution PGAdmin Error

PGAdmin may display an error during the restore process. This is known to occur and may be ignored.

:::

7. Start the main pod of Nextcloud.

```bash
k3s kubectl scale deploy nextcloud -n ix-nextcloud --replicas=1
```

### OCC Commands

:::caution Nextcloud Deploy

Wait for Nextcloud to fully deploy before proceeding.

:::

1. Open a shell for the Nextcloud main pod as shown below. Ensure your are selecting the correct pod it should just say nextcloud for both Pods (followed by random characters only) and Containers as shown below.
   <!-- ![nextcloud-cli](./img/nextcloud-cli.png) -->
2. Run the following commands in the Nextcloud shell.

```bash
occ upgrade
```

```bash
occ maintenance:mode --on
```

```bash
occ maintenance:repair
```

```bash
occ maintenance:mode --off
```

```bash
occ db:add-missing-indices
```

```bash
occ files:scan --all
```

### Delete Temporary User Data Folder

You may now remove the folder created during install for the temporary user that was configured.

Commit message:

docs(multiple charts): fix asides (#21073)
**Description**
Fixes asides and restores nextcloud migration guide images.

⚒️ Fixes  # 

**⚙️ Type of change**

- [ ] ⚙️ Feature/App addition
- [ ] 🪛 Bugfix
- [ ] ⚠️ Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing
functionality to not work as expected)
- [ ] 🔃 Refactor of current code

**🧪 How Has This Been Tested?**

**📃 Notes:**

**✔️ Checklist:**

- [ ] ⚖️ My code follows the style guidelines of this project
- [ ] 👀 I have performed a self-review of my own code
- [ ] #️⃣ I have commented my code, particularly in hard-to-understand
areas
- [ ] 📄 I have made corresponding changes to the documentation
- [ ] ⚠️ My changes generate no new warnings
- [ ] 🧪 I have added tests to this description that prove my fix is
effective or that my feature works
- [ ] ⬆️ I increased versions for any altered app according to semantic
versioning
- [X] I made sure the title starts with `feat(chart-name):`,
`fix(chart-name):` or `chore(chart-name):`

**➕ App addition**

If this PR is an app addition please make sure you have done the
following.

- [ ] 🖼️ I have added an icon in the Chart's root directory called
`icon.png`

---

_Please don't blindly check all the boxes. Read them and only check
those that apply.
Those checkboxes are there for the reviewer to see what is this all
about and
the status of this PR with a quick glance._

charts/premium/nextcloud/docs/backup-restore-migrate-guide.md, after:

---
title: Nextcloud Backup, Restore and Migration Guide
---

This guide can will walk through the process of backing up and existing Nextcloud installation and how to restore or migrate that installation. This guide utilize HostPath or NFS for UserData.

## Backup

:::danger[SMB EXTERNAL STORAGE]

If you are using SMB authenticated external storage on your Nextcloud remove it before starting this guide. The migration process will fail if it is not removed.

:::

:::danger[TWO FACTOR AUTHENTICATION]

If you are using two factor authentication on your Nextcloud accounts disable it before starting this guide. While it can be done via the CLI later it is much easier to disable it before hand.

:::

### Backup Database

If you have not already done so install PGAdmin and the [tcdbinfo.sh script](/scale/guides/sql-export/#how-to-list-database-login-info-for-truecharts-apps)

1. Run the tcdbinfo.sh script and take note of the connection info

   ```bash
   bash tcdbinfo.sh
   ```

   <!-- ![tcdbinfo-output](./img/tcdbinfo-output.png) -->

2. Add Nextcloud to PGAdmin using the connection info from previous step.
   <!-- ![pgadmin-connection1](./img/pgadmin-connection1.png) -->
   <!-- ![pgadmin-connection2](./img/pgadmin-connection2.png) -->
3. Backup Nextcloud database.
   <!-- ![pgadmin-backup](./img/pgadmin-backup.png) -->

### Backup User Data

If you are using HostPath of NFS for UserData then no further action is required. If you are using PVC for UserData then you will first need to mount your Nextcloud PVC and copy your UserData to a new dataset.

## Restore

### Remove Old AppData

This step is not required but to have a clean installation remove all UserData folder and files that are not user folders.

```bash
ls -la
```

<!-- ![userdata-old](./img/userdata-old.png) -->

:::caution

Next steps are destructive without a way to undo. Make sure you have proper backups to avoid data loss.

You have been **warned**

```bash
rm -rf <folder>
```

```bash
rm .ocdata .htaccess index.html nextcloud.log
```

<!-- ![userdata-clean](./img/userdata-clean.png) -->

:::

### Verify User Data Permissions

Nextcloud uses apps for file ownership. Apply permissions as shown below to your User Data dataset.

![userdata-perms](./img/userdata-perms.png)

### Install Nextcloud

Install with a temporary admin user that you do not currently use for Nextcloud (ie. temp)

:::caution[UNIQUE USER]

If you do not install with a unique user the install will fail because Nexctloud will be unable to create the user folder when one already exists

:::

Setup Nextcloud User Data storage with your previous User Data dataset or the dataset you copied your User Data to.

<!-- ![userdata-setting](./img/userdata-setting.png) -->

### Restore Database

:::caution[Nextcloud Installation]

Wait for Nextcloud to fully deploy before proceeding.

:::

1. Stop the main pod of Nextcloud.

   ```bash
   k3s kubectl scale deploy nextcloud -n ix-nextcloud --replicas=0
   ```

2. Add Nextcloud to PGAdmin as guided in [steps 1 and 2 here](#backup-database).
3. In PGAdmin right click on the database and select restore as shown below.
   <!-- ![pgadmin-restore1](./img/pgadmin-restore1.png) -->
4. Select the database backup you created previously.
   <!-- ![pgadmin-restore2](./img/pgadmin-restore2.png) -->
5. Configure Data/Objects as shown below.
   <!-- ![pgadmin-restore3](./img/pgadmin-restore3.png) -->
6. Configure Options as shown below and click restore.
   <!-- ![pgadmin-restore4](./img/pgadmin-restore4.png) -->

:::caution[PGAdmin Error]

PGAdmin may display an error during the restore process. This is known to occur and may be ignored.

:::

7. Start the main pod of Nextcloud.

```bash
k3s kubectl scale deploy nextcloud -n ix-nextcloud --replicas=1
```

### OCC Commands

:::caution[Nextcloud Deploy]

Wait for Nextcloud to fully deploy before proceeding.

:::

1. Open a shell for the Nextcloud main pod as shown below. Ensure your are selecting the correct pod it should just say nextcloud for both Pods (followed by random characters only) and Containers as shown below.
   <!-- ![nextcloud-cli](./img/nextcloud-cli.png) -->
2. Run the following commands in the Nextcloud shell.

```bash
occ upgrade
```

```bash
occ maintenance:mode --on
```

```bash
occ maintenance:repair
```

```bash
occ maintenance:mode --off
```

```bash
occ db:add-missing-indices
```

```bash
occ files:scan --all
```

### Delete Temporary User Data Folder

You may now remove the folder created during install for the temporary user that was configured.
