---
slug: "news/scale-faq"
title: "TrueNAS Scale TrueCharts Frequently Asked Questions"
authors: [kqmaverick]
date: 2024-08-22
tags:
  - "2024"
---

Hey everyone. We wanted to answer some of the frequently asked questions about TrueNAS Scale TrueCharts application support.

## What happened to TrueCharts apps on TrueNAS Scale?

Unfortunately, IX Systems decided that with the upcoming Electric Eel TrueNAS Scale update (24.10) to switch the application backend to Docker and remove Kubernetes. TrueCharts is and always has been a Helm Charts project. Previous versions of TrueNAS Scale were able to install our Helm Charts due to its Kubernetes support. With the upcoming removal of Kubernetes from TrueNAS Scale, our Helm Charts can no longer be installed using the native app system. To clarify, app installations have been disabled entirely to prevent users from setting up an app environment that will soon be outdated, see "What happened to the TrueNAS Scale TrueCharts application catalog?" below.

## Why don’t you just continue making TrueNAS Scale apps?

We never made "TrueNAS Scale Apps”; we have always made Helm Charts that TrueNAS Scale supported up to Electric Eel, thanks to the Kubernetes backend. Our charts ecosystem is not possible on a Docker-based OS. Additionally, as part of this IX Systems transition to Docker, they will no longer support third party app catalogues. Starting with 24.10/Electric Eel only the catalog from iX Systems will be available and options like custom app.

## Why was there no warning about this change?

IX Systems announced their intention to move to Docker shortly after the release of Dragonfish (24.04) on 29 May 2024. As soon as the announcement was made the TrueCharts team started working on a solution for all of our TrueNAS Scale users.

## Could you not have had a solution ready earlier?

TrueCharts is not affiliated with IX Systems. We found out about the removal of Kubernetes support on 29 May 2024 the same as everyone else.

## So, does this mean that TrueCharts is dead?

No, TrueCharts is not dead. We have always made Helm Charts and our Charts can be installed on any Helm-compatible OS, not just TrueNAS Scale. We continue to provide these Helm Charts as always and they can already be installed on a compatible OS.

## How do I install TrueCharts now?

You are able to install any compatible OS and add the TrueCharts repository.

## I want to keep using TrueNAS Scale as my OS. What can I do?

We are currently developing ClusterTool. Once completed it will help create and configure a Kubernetes cluster on a Talos VM for use with TrueCharts. We already have created guides for setting up a Talos VM on TrueNAS Scale. Once ClusterTool is completed it will assist with the migration of your currently installed TrueCharts apps on TrueNAS Scale to a Talos VM. Please watch the News for more information as ClusterTool development continues ahead of the TrueNAS Scale 24.10 update.

## Will ClusterTool migrate my application data to Talos?

No. Talos will only migrate the actual application/chart itself, not the data associated with it. Data for applications/charts that you would like to be migrated to Talos also, must be backed up to S3/B2 storage prior to migration using VolSync as described here. *(2025 note: Migration is no longer possible or supported)*

## Why Talos?

Talos is a lightweight OS specifically designed for running a Kubernetes cluster.

## What about HexOS?

HexOS is an internet based WebUI for TrueNAS Scale. It utilizes API calls to TrueNAS Scale and as such has the same limitations as TrueNAS Scale.

## What about *insert your choice* OS?

Our Helm Charts can be installed on any OS that supports installing Helm Charts. You are not required to use Talos. ClusterTool is a separate project that is being created to help create a Kubernetes cluster and migrate existing TrueNAS Scale users.

## What happened to the TrueNAS Scale TrueCharts application catalog?

It was decided to remove the TrueNAS Scale TrueCharts application catalog to prevent any new user from starting use of TrueCharts on TrueNAS Scale during this transition period.

## Why am I not seeing updates for apps?

Once IX Systems decided to announce the depreciation of Kubernetes on TrueNAS Scale we needed to divert our developer time from maintaining the TrueNAS Scale application catalog to work on ClusterTool.

## Why couldn’t you keep the TrueNAS Scale TrueCharts application catalog running and up to date until ClusterTool is ready or Electric Eel is released?

TrueNAS Scale support for TrueCharts was always developer intensive. At any given point in time, Scale compatibility required more than a third of total dev time on the project to maintain. We are not able to do both maintain the catalog and work on ClusterTool. We decided to immediately focus on ClusterTool so that is ready for release before TrueNAS Scale 24.10.

## My app has an updated and I want to install it.

Almost all apps will continue to run without updates.

## I cannot wait I need to update my apps.

If you do not want to wait for ClusterTool you have the following options:

1. Install a compatible OS and add the TrueCharts repository.
2. Switch your applications to those provided by IX Systems. They have promised their applications will migrate to the new Docker system.
