---
slug: "news/clustertool-rc"
title: "Clustertool Release Candidate"
authors: [alfi0812, ornias]
date: 2024-10-16
tags:
  - "2024"
---

## ClusterTool Release Candidate Update

We are pleased to announce that ClusterTool has officially entered Release Candidate status.
After extensive development and testing, the general configuration format is now considered stable,
ensuring greater reliability and consistency moving forward.

In addition, we are excited to confirm that migration from TrueNAS Scale to your own Kubernetes cluster is now fully supported.
This capability enables streamlined transitions,
empowering users to harness the full potential of Kubernetes while maintaining their existing data and configurations.

At the bottom of this page ([Talos Cluster Guide](#guide-to-creating-a-talos-cluster-with-clustertool-and-migrating-your-scale-apps)),
you'll find a helpful guide detailing how to create your talos cluster and migrate your SCALE Apps.

We appreciate your continued support as we move toward the final release and look forward to hearing your feedback during this phase.

Here you can Download the RC-Release: [Download Link](https://github.com/truecharts/public/releases).

## ClusterTool is Now Source-Available

We’re excited to announce that ClusterTool is now source-available!
This means that the source code is open for review, collaboration, and contributions from the community.
We believe this move will enhance transparency and drive innovation as we continue to improve the platform.

## New Guides for CSI Installation and Longhorn Integration

We’re excited to announce that we now offer a selection of guides on how to install a Container Storage Interface (CSI) on Kubernetes.
Additionally, Longhorn will be shipped by default with ClusterTool, simplifying your storage management and enhancing your Kubernetes experience.
Check out the [guides](/clustertool/csi/) to get started!

## Changes in Documentation Leadership

We’d like to announce that @bitpushr is stepping down from the role of Documentation Maintainer.
We greatly appreciate his contributions and dedication to maintaining high-quality documentation during his tenure.

Moving forward, @alfi0812 will be taking over as the new Doc Maintainer.
We’re excited to have him on board and look forward to the fresh insights and improvements he’ll bring to the role.

## Future Prospect for Clustertool and our Helm Charts

At the release of Clustertool, we also hope to add code signing to the build process and a (signed) containerized version as well.
So everyone can ensure themselves of it running trusted code!

We're also working hard at adding all sorts of charts to support (Real-)debrid based streaming and downloading. such as: Comet, Riven, Zurg and much more

## Guide to Creating a Talos Cluster with ClusterTool and Migrating Your SCALE Apps

### Creating your Talos Cluster

Follow the linked Guides to find more details on how to create your own Talos Cluster using Clustertool.

- [VM Setup](/general/systemrequirements)
- [Getting Started with Clustertool](/clustertool/getting-started/)
- [clustertool init](/clustertool/commands/init/)
- Edit your config (talconfig.yaml and clusterenv.yaml)
- [clustertool genconfig](/clustertool/commands/genconfig/)
- [clustertool apply](/clustertool/commands/talos/apply/)

Afterwards you are ready to migrate your SCALE Apps.

### SCALE Apps Migration

To migrate all of your existing SCALE Apps to your Talos Cluster, be sure to read our TrueNAS SCALE [Migration Guide](/clustertool/migrations/scale/)

In short, you will need the following commands from ClusterTool:

To export all your SCALE Apps into a ClusterTool compatible format.

- [clustertool scaleexport](/clustertool/commands/scale/export)

To turn the exported Apps into ClusterTool and Fluxcd compatible Helm-Release Files:

- [clustertool scalemigrate](clustertool/commands/scale/migrate/)

And last, but certianly not least, to install the converted Helm-Release Files onto your cluster:

- [clustertool helmrelease install](/clustertool/commands/helmrelease/install/)



## Effortless Hosting with ElfHosted

For users who prefer not to handle the maintenance and management of their self-hosted content, we highly recommend **ElfHosted**.
Visit [ElfHosted](http://elfhosted.com/) for a hassle-free, fully managed hosting solution tailored to your needs.
