---
title: 'Exporting SCALE App config only'
---

With the removal of kubernetes-based TrueNAS SCALE Apps and the discontinuation of our TrueNAS SCALE App catalog, We understand users want to be looking to move to other solutions.
We've had a lot of users request guidance on how to export the SCALE App configuration, so they can copy-paste parts of it into other solutions, such as Docker-Compose or iX-Systems SCALE Apps.

As part of your ClusterTool project, we've, for this usercase, implemented 2 commands to export and clean-up the whole configuration of the Apps as intered in the GUI.
Into neatly structured YAML files. From which users can easily copy-paste into, for example, a docker-compose file.


## Pre-Migrations Advisory

Prior to migration, we require the following to be done:

### **DO NOT** update to Electric Eel

As soon as you migupdaterated to TrueNAS SCALE 24.10 "Electric Eel", you cannot, in any way, migrate your TrueCharts Apps anymore.


### Install ClusterTool

Ensure the Clustertool binary is downloaded into a folder on your TrueNAS SCALE Machine, all exports will be output into this folder.

### Note on  storage

Storage and data stored within apps is not included with this export.
The tool will just provide a clean export of the configuration you entered into the GUI.

For access to PVC-based datastores, we advice the use of HeavyScript instead.


## Important note

We do not sanitise the exported/migated configuration from SCALE.
We dont, to ensure the data is 100% cleanly exported. Hence it may contain passwords or sensative data.

## Exporting SCALE Apps

- Open a Shell, either through SSH or the Web-GUI shell of SCALE
- cd into the folder you downloaded clustertool into
- Run now `./clustertool scale export`

This will output a complete dump of the configuration values for your SCALE Apps.

## Converting SCALE Apps to easily readableHelm-Release files

The default json is quite hard to read, to make it easier readable, you can use the SCALE migrate function to generate easier readable files.
In contrast to the name, this is just a formatting tool and doesn't actually migrate anything itself.

- Open a Shell, either through SSH or the Web-GUI shell of SCALE
- cd into the folder you downloaded clustertool into
- Run `./clustertool scale migrate` to convert all exported SCALE Apps to ClusterTool/FluxCD compatible Helm-Releases

This should put a whole lot of "helmrelease.yaml" files, containing the structured App configuration data under "values".


## Known Issues

### Some application specific settings might be hidden

Some application specific settings might not directly be created by the user, but instead dynamically generated by us on install.
Such configuration options will hence, as they are not part of the user-entered configuration, not part of the export either.

### TrueNAS SCALE 24.10 "Electric Eel" not supported

Its **NOT** possible *in any way* to do the migration after updating to TrueNAS SCALE 24.10 "Electric Eel"
